# UC-Actions

This repository holds common [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) that are used in the various CAT and
UnityCore repositories.

# Available Actions

## [analyze-test-results](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/analyze-test-results)

Scans Unity test runner results for failed tests and reports them as a new, `action_required` check.  Note that no
additional check is generated if all tests are passing.

### Inputs
- `name` - The name to assign to the generated check (optional; defaults to `test-results`)
- `files` - One or more XML filenames to analyze

## [check-for-changelog](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/check-for-changelog)

Ensures that the CHANGELOG.md has been updated with each pull request.

### Inputs
- `github_token` - Valid GitHub API token (optional; will use workflow token if omitted)
- `filename` - Filename to check for (optional; defaults to CHANGELOG.md)

## [check-for-documentation](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/check-for-documentation)

If the JIRA ticket for a given pull request is labeled with `Documentation`, the pull request is scanned for
documentation updates.

### Inputs
- `github_token` - Valid GitHub API token (optional; will use workflow token if omittted)
- `jira_user` - Username for JIRA authentication (optional; will use `CONFLUENCE_USER` is omitted)
- `jira_password` - Password for JIRA authentication (optional; will use `CONFLUENCE_PASSWORD` is omitted)

## [create-package](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/create-package)

Creates a zip file and package.json for a given package suitable for distribution or publishing to Artifactory.

### Inputs
- `artifactory_root` - The root URI to use for Artifactory publishing
- `package_version` - The version number being published in [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) format
- `source_path` - The absolute path to the source files to be packaged

### Outputs
- `json_path` - Absolute path to the generated `package.json` file
- `zip_path` - Absolute path to the generated zip file containing the package contents

## [performance-analysis](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/performance-analysis)

Analyses the output of automated performance tests.  Depending upon the provided inputs, this action will either:

- Generate alerts for significant changes in performance as compared to historical data
- Ingest new metrics into the database for future comparison

### Inputs
- `operation` - Which operation should be performed; may be one of: (`compare`, `ingest`)
- `database_path` - Path to the SQLite database that should be queried and updated
- `input_path` - Path to the CSV file containing the performance metrics

### Outputs
- `alerts` - Any alerts that may be generated by the `compare` operation

## [post-github-comment](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/post-github-comment)

A more general purpose action for posting comments to GitHub pull requests.

### Inputs
- `github_token` - Valid GitHub API token (optional; will use workflow token if omitted)
- `title` - A title for the comment; used for selecting existing comments with `mode`
- `body` - The body text of the comment
- `mode` - One of the following options; specifies how the action should behave if an existing comment is found
  - `amend` - Behaves the same as `replace`, except the previous body is kept with ~~strikethrough~~ markup
  - `create` - Always create a new comment
  - `new` - Only post the comment if no existing match was found
  - `replace` - Replace an existing comment, if one is found, otherwise create a new comment

## [post-jira-comment](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/post-jira-comment)

Checks the pull request for a JIRA ticket number and adds a comment linking back to it.

### Inputs
- `github_token` - Valid GitHub API token (optional; will use workflow token if omitted)

## [post-to-slack](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/post-to-slack)

Sends a release notification message to a Slack channel.

### Inputs
- `token` - A valid Slack API token
- `channel` - The name of the channel to post the message to
- `project_name` - The name of the project being released
- `version` - The version number that is being released

## [publish-release](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/publish-release)

Create a new release tag in the repository.

### Inputs
- `token` - A valid GitHub API token
- `version` - The release version number (used as the release tag name)
- `ref` - The commit or branch being published.

## [set-define-symbols](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/set-define-symbols)

Manipulate script define symbols for a Unity project externally.

### Inputs
- `project_path` - Path to the root of the Unity project (optional; defaults to the current workspace)
- `remove_symbols` - Should symbols be removed rather than added? (optional; defaults to `false`)
- `symbols` - List of define symbols to be added or removed, separated by `,` or `;`
- `platforms` - List of platforms to modify, separated by `,` or `;` (optional; by default will modify all platforms in the project)

## [update-changelog](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/update-changelog)

Update the changelog to commit the current unreleased changes to the new version number and create a new unreleased
block.

### Inputs
- `version` - The version number that was released

## [update-package-json](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/update-package-json)

Update the version number in the local package.json file so that it interacts correctly with the package manager.

### Inputs
- `version` - The new active version number of the package

## [build-with-ubp](https://github.com/mindjolt/uc-actions/tree/main/build-with-ubp)

Create a build using UBP. This supports both UnityCore version and UC UBP SDK version.

### Inputs
- `jsonFiles` - The JSON files you want to build with space delimited.
    - Files with `%PROJECT_PATH%` will have the UBP Saved Project settings path inserted.
    - Files that start with `./` will use what ever directory was last used.
- `platform` - The platform that UBP will build for.
  - Supported Platforms: AndroidGoogle, AndroidAmazon, AndroidSamsung, AndroidFacebook, WebGLFacebook, IOS, MacOS, Win, Win64
- `unityVersion` - The version of Unity to build with.
- `override` - The JSON string to use for the override file.
  - To create the JSON it is recommended to use [object-remap](https://github.com/nickofthyme/object-remap).
- <i>(optional)</i> `buildMethod` allow usage of a custom build method (IE older version of UBP).
  - Defaults to `JamCity.UnityCore.UnifiedBuildPipelineSdk.Editor.Commands.BuildPlayerFromFile`.
- <i>(optional)</i> `logFile` allows setting of custom logfile.
  - Defaults to `-` which means it will log directly to the console.
- <i>(optional)<i/> `unityLocation` Allows setting of custom location where the different version of unity are stored.
  - Defaults to `/Applications/Unity/Hub/Editor/`

### Example

```yaml
    steps:
      - name: 'Make JSON Package'
        id: JSON_STEP
        uses: nickofthyme/object-remap@v1
        with:
          standardConfig.version: ${{github.event.inputs.version}}
          standardConfig.buildID: ${{github.run_number}}

      - name: 'Build Package'
        uses: mindjolt/uc-actions/build-with-ubp@v9
        with:
          platform: ${{github.event.inputs.platform}}
          unityVersion: ${{github.event.inputs.unityVersion}}
          files: ${{github.event.inputs.primaryBuildJob}} ./${{github.event.inputs.platform}}.json
          override: ${{steps.JSON_STEP.outputs.json}}
```
